Let's glue this all together in this upcoming demo where we
will create a custom patch baseline and group and apply
these to our Windows instance.
We'll return to the Systems Manager console and browse
down here to the Patch Manager tab.
This tab is more of a place to jump on from to either the predefined patch
baselines or straight to the configuration of a patching process.
Let's first go to see the predefined baselines, shall we?
In here, we find AWS predefined baselines for every operating
system Patch Manager currently supports.
Most of those baselines are marked as default baselines.
This means that they will apply to this operating system whenever no
other patch group is configured on an instance.
Really, if nothing else applies, these apply.
Let's take the default patch baseline for Windows here.
It's called AWS default patch baseline.
We can see that it is the default baseline for all
Windows Server operating systems.
And further down,
we can also see what updates this baseline installs
based on classification and severity.
It also auto approves updates 7 days after they have become available.
That's definitely a sensible setting that we are going
to make use of in our next step.
We browse back to the start page and then back into the patch baselines.
From here, we can check out the Patches tab,
which has all patches available at a single glance,
and we can even filter these patches,
which makes sense because obviously there are a lot of them.
At Globomantics, we're only interested in Windows Server 2019.
And If we want to see these patches,
we can filter these patches here by product and the product string
WindowsServer2019 to only view those patches The Patch Groups tab
will show any associations between patch groups and baselines that
have been configured in this region.
We've not talked about patch groups yet,
so a patch group is a way off grouping instances,
managed or EC2, into groups that should have the same patches applied.
A patch group is created through the use of a specific EC2 tag,
so let's go ahead and create a patch group.
For this, we will browse to the Managed Instances tab.
This is one place where we can apply tags to our instances.
There are many others, but we'll just stick to this one for this demo.
We select our Windows EC2 instance, and inside the Tags tab,
we can add tags to the instance.
Patch group is created by applying a tag with the special key,
Patch Group, to an EC2.
It's important that it's spelled exactly like this.
Otherwise, it's not going to work.
The tag value, however, can be any string.
This string is what we will use going forward to
apply patches to this patch group.
An instance can only be a member of one patch group,
and this instance here is supposed to get patch baselines applied that
are associated with the WindowsServer2019base baseline.
Save the tag, and we'll head back to Patch Manager to create a custom baseline.
We should give our baseline a good name that we can easily identify,
for example globomantics‑windowsserver2019‑base.
We'll just skip the description for now,
but make sure that Windows is selected as the OS this applies to.
We also set this as the default baseline for all Windows instances.
Because of that,
we're going to get this warning here telling us that this actually applies to
all Windows instances and not just Windows Server 2019.
As Globomantics is only going to be managing Windows
Server 2019, it's good to know, and it's an important callout,
but for us, this is going to be fine.
We now have to configure the product this baseline applies to. As mentioned,
this is Server 2019. And we want to cover all our bases,
so we select that all severities and classifications have to be installed.
However, as progressive as we are,
we do like to wait a few days and see what the internet
has to say about the quality of patches.
So we're going to wait 7 days until we auto approve the updates.
In addition to Windows, we can also apply patches to applications,
for example to Office or SQL Server.
But in this baseline,
we don't. We just want to cover Windows Server 2019. So
we'll head back out and create the baseline.
Now that this is created,
we need to go back into the newly created baseline and do one more thing.
You can see that there's no patch group associated with this
baseline. But under Actions, we can exactly do that.
Remember the tag value that we used on our instance?
That string now goes in here. A baseline can actually be
associated with many patch groups, 25 to be precise.
Once we added the string here,
we can add it, we close out, and we can now finally
configure the patching process. First of all,
we need to configure how this process will identify the instances to patch.
We will use the most reliable way by instance tags.
The instance tag here can actually be any instance tag,
but we're going to use the patch group tag from
before as that makes the most sense.
Next, the patching schedule needs to be configured,
and this is the maintenance window schedule.
The first step, we will configure the maintenance window's targets. As we
don't have an existing maintenance window yet, we have to create a new one.
In here, we can now choose from a few options to create the schedule's CRON
or rate expression. As an example here,
we can say that this window is valid every Sunday at
1:00 a.m, and its duration is 5 hours.
This should be plenty of time for every required update
to be installed across all instances.
For this demo though,
we can skip the scheduling and type Patch Manager to patch
the instances right away. This way, we don't have to wait
here until next Sunday morning.
The default patching operation is to scan and straightaway install the updates.
We could, however, also set it to scan only,
and then later on, we tell it to scan and install after we've reviewed. The
additional settings inform us that the patch baselines and groups that are
applicable to the instances will be executed. And if none are configured for the
instances, the default baselines will be used.
We already mentioned that, so that's okay with us. One
click, and we've configured the patching.
A new instance like ours will hopefully not have too many patches pending,
so this process should be fairly quick.
Let's head over to the managed instances again and have a look at
our Windows instance. Here in the Patch tab,
we can see what has happened.
Indeed,
it says that 15 updates were installed, and the timestamp of
the last update also matches our expectation.
So this is great for a single instance where you can
click around and check every single one.
But for a large fleet, we want to get more of a high‑level overview,
and we can get exactly that from the Compliance tab here.
This is where we can find all the compliant and
noncompliant instances in our environment,
and it's a very handy view to have for any environment with more than a handful of resources.